>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MARCH 29:
WITH A KEY DEADLINE LOOMING,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
CANCELS AN EVENT BACK HOME TO
TRY TO WRAP UP A NUCLEAR DEAL
WITH IRAN.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, THE
FUTURE OF TELEVISION.
IS IT HEADED FOR THE GRAVEYARD
AS MORE AND MORE YOUNG PEOPLE
CUT THE CORD?
I DON'T FEEL THE NEED TO GO OUT
OF MY WAY TO BUY A TV, LET
ALONE PAY A CABLE BILL.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THE
GOVERNMENT TAKES NEW STEPS TO
CRACK DOWN ON LENDERS CHARGING
POOR PEOPLE 400% INTEREST ON
THEIR LOANS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM KQED IN SAN FRANCISCO,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
TUESDAY IS THE DEADLINE FOR A
NUCLEAR DEAL BETWEEN IRAN AND
THE WORLD'S MAJOR POWERS.
AND IN SWITZERLAND, NEGOTIATIONS
ARE INTENSIFYING TO TRY TO WRAP
UP AN AGREEMENT.
THE EUROPEAN UNION'S FOREIGN
POLICY CHIEF EXPRESSED OPTIMISM
ABOUT THE TALKS.
>> WE HAVE NEVER BEEN SO CLOSE
TO A DEAL, STILL WE HAVE SOME
CRITICAL POINTS THAT NEED TO BE
SOLVED.
>> Sreenivasan: IN ISRAEL TODAY,
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU RENEWED HIS CRITICISM
OF THE APPARENT DEAL BEING
FASHIONED BY REPRESENTATIVES
FROM IRAN AND THE UNITED STATES,
GERMANY, FRANCE, THE UNITED
KINGDOM, RUSSIA AND CHINA.
>> (translated): I EXPRESSED
OUR DEEP CONCERN TOWARDS THIS
DEAL EMERGING WITH IRAN IN THE
NUCLEAR TALKS, THIS DEAL AS IT
APPEARS TO BE EMERGING BEARS OUT
ALL OF OUR FEARS, AND EVEN MORE
THAN THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE KEY
STICKING POINTS APPARENTLY
HOLDING UP A FINAL DEAL IS HOW
QUICKLY WESTERN ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN WILL BE
LIFTED ONCE THAT COUNTRY AGREES
TO CONDITIONS MEANT TO PREVENT
IT FROM PRODUCING A NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
AGREED TO FORM A JOINT
MILITARY TASK FORCE.
IT WILL NUMBER 40,000 TROOPS.
THE ACTION BY THE MOSTLY
SUNNI MUSLIM GROUP WAS TAKEN
IN RESPONSE TO ADVANCES BY
PRO IRANIAN SHIITE-MUSLIM
REBELS IN YEMEN.
SAUDI ARABIA HAS BEEN BOMBING
REBEL POSITIONS IN YEMEN FOR
SEVERAL DAYS NOW AND REPORTEDLY
HAS DESTROYED THE REBELS FIGHTER
PLANES.
STILL, ON NBC'S "MEET THE
PRESS" TODAY, THE SAUDI
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES
DIDN'T RULE OUT THE POSSIBILITY
HIS NATION MIGHT SEND GROUND
TROOPS INTO YEMEN.
>> WE HAVEN'T MADE A DECISION TO
SEND IN GROUND TROOPS IN SO FAR.
SO FAR IT'S BEEN AN AIR
CAMPAIGN.
WE HAVE A PLAN IN MOTION AND WE
ARE EXECUTING THIS PLAN.
>> Sreenivasan: IN TUNISIA,
GOVERNMENT FORCES SAY THEY
KILLED NINE TERRORISTS
OVERNIGHT, INCLUDING ONE OF THE
KEY SUSPECTS IN THE RECENT
MUSEUM ATTACK THAT RESULTED IN
THE DEATHS OF NEARLY TWO DOZEN
PEOPLE.
TENS OF THOUSANDS WAVED THE
TUNISIAN FLAG IN A MASSIVE
DEMONSTRATION AGAINST ISLAMIC
EXTREMISM.
THE MARCHERS WERE JOINED BY
OFFICIALS FROM MANY EUROPEAN AND
AFRICAN NATIONS.
NEW GAMES, A GROUP LINKED TO
AL QAEDA CLAIMS IT HAS
CAPTURED
A GROUP LINKED TO AL-QAEDA
CLAIMS IT HAS CAPTURED THE CITY
OF IDLIB FROM GOVERNMENT TROOPS.
THIS VIDEO, POSTED ONLINE, IS
SAID TO BE OF THE SCENE THERE.
IDLIB BECOMES THE SECOND
PROVINCIAL CAPITAL TO FALL INTO
THE HANDS OF ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS.
THE FIRST, RAQQA, IS NOW THE
HEADQUARTERS OF ISIS.
PRESIDENTIAL VOTING IN NIGERIA,
AFRICA'S MOST POPULOUS NATION,
ENTERED A SECOND DAY TODAY.
IT WAS MARRED BY VIOLENT ATTACKS
FROM BOKO HARAM ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
DOZENS HAVE BEEN KILLED THIS
WEEKEND IN THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF THE NATION, WHERE THE
MILITANT GROUP REGULARLY
LAUNCHES ATTACKS.
DESPITE THOSE ATTACKS AND
TECHNICAL GLITCHES, MILLIONS
CAST THEIR VOTE IN AN ELECTION
THAT COULD SEE THE NATION'S
FIRST DEMOCRATIC TRANSFER OF
POWER.
RESULTS ARE EXPECTED IN THE NEXT
48 HOURS.
NEW EVIDENCE THIS WEEKEND THAT
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IN WEST
AFRICA IS FAR FROM OVER.
THE GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA
DECLARED A HEALTH EMERGENCY IN
FIVE REGIONS, ALLOWING IT TO
RESTRICT MOVEMENT, QUARANTINE
MEDICAL CENTERS, AND INSTITUTE
LOCKDOWNS IF NECESSARY.
IN NEIGHBORING SIERRA LEONE, A
THREE-DAY LOCKDOWN WENT INTO
EFFECT FRIDAY.
BUT SOME RESIDENTS THERE LEFT
THEIR HOMES TO GET FOOD.
POLICE LATER FIRED TEAR GAS INTO
A CROWD OF PEOPLE TO TRY TO GET
THEM TO LEAVE.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, INDIANA
GOVERNOR MIKE PENCE SAYS HE
WOULD SUPPORT ADDITIONAL
LEGISLATION TO QUOTE, "CLARIFY"
THE INTENT OF A BILL PASSED JUST
DAYS AGO THAT CRITICS SAY WILL
ALLOW BUSINESS TO DISCRIMINATE
AGAINST HOMOSEXUALS.
SINCE THE BILL WAS APPROVED, THE
MAYORS OF SAN FRANCISCO AND
SEATTLE HAVE BARRED CITY-FUNDED
TRAVEL TO INDIANA, AND SEVERAL
CORPORATIONS ARE CONSIDERING
REDUCING BUSINESS DEALINGS
THERE.
PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICIALS AND
FARMERS IN MINNESOTA ARE
SLAUGHTERING TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF TURKEYS TO TRY TO CONTAIN AN
OUTBREAK OF THE DEADLY BIRD FLU
THERE.
MINNESOTA IS THE NATION'S
BIGGEST PRODUCER OF TURKEYS, AND
MORE THAN FORTY NATIONS HAVE
BANNED POULTRY IMPORTS FROM THAT
STATE SINCE THE OUTBREAK BEGAN
EARLIER THIS MONTH.
OFFICIALS SAY THIS PARTICULAR
STRAIN, WHICH ALSO HAS BEEN
DISCOVERED IN ARKANSAS, MISSOURI
AND KANSAS, POSES NO IMMEDIATE
THREAT TO HUMAN HEALTH.
SOME GOOD NEWS FOR THOSE OF YOU
WHO ENJOY BOTH ALCOHOL AND
COFFEE.
IT'S LONG BEEN KNOWN THAT HAVING
SEVERAL DRINKS A DAY INCREASES
THE RISK OF LIVER CANCER.
BUT A RECENT ANALYSIS BY THE
WORLD CANCER RESEARCH FUND FINDS
THAT REGULARLY DRINKING COFFEE
CAN HELP REDUCE THAT CANCER
RISK.
RESEARCHERS SAID ITS NOT CLEAR
WHY COFFEE LOWERS THE LIVER
CANCER RISK, AND CALLED FOR
FURTHER STUDY.
AND FINALLY, A PENNY SAVED IS A
PENNY EARNED.
UNLESS OF COURSE YOU HAVE A
BIRCH PENNY, ONE OF THE FIRST
PENNIES EVER MINTED IN THE
ONE OF THOSE JUST SOLD AT
AUCTION THIS WEEK FOR ALMOST
$1.2 MILLION.
THERE ARE FEWER THAN A DOZEN
BIRCH PENNIES KNOWN TO EXIST.
THE COIN, THE SIZE OF A MODERN-
DAY QUARTER, WAS MADE IN 1792.
THE DECISION TODAY BY THE 21
NATIONS OF THE ARAB LEAGUE TO
CREATE A JOINT MILITARY FORCE
BECAUSE OF THE CRISIS IN YEMEN
RAISES THE QUESTION: WHY DIDN'T
THE ORGANIZATION MOBILIZE THE
SAME WAY TO FIGHT ISIS IN IRAQ?
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS AND FOR THE
LATEST ON THE MILITARY SITUATION
IN IRAQ, WE ARE JOINED VIA SKYPE
IN IRAQ NOW BY MATT BRADLEY OF
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
SO WHY IS IT THAT
THE ARAB STATES VERY QUICKLY
GOT INVOLVED IN YEMEN.
IT'S ALMOST A PROXY WAR FOR
SHI'A AND SUNNI STATES BUT
THAT'S NOT THE CASE IN IRAQ?
>> WELL, THEY DID GET
INVOLVED.
RATHER QUICKLY IN IRAQ.
THE PROBLEM WAS THAT IRAQ
WAS LEAD AT THE TIME ON JUNE
150th WHEN ISLAMIC STATE RAM
TAGGED THROUGH NORTHERN
IRAQ.
IRAQ WAS LEAD BY AL-MALIKI
WHO WAS A PERSONAL PROBLEM
FOR MANY OF THE SUNNI ARAB
LEADERS IN THE REGION.
SO HE WAS CONSIDERED TO BE
VERY CLOSELY ALIGNED WITH
IRAN BUT ALSO A LOT OF THE
SUNNI LEADERS IN THE REGION
SIMPLY DIDN'T LIKE HIM AND
DIDN'T CONSIDER HIM TO BE A
RELIABLE PARTNER.
AND NOW IT'S PART OF THE
REASON WHY SOME OF THE SUNNI
STATES SUCH AS SAUDI ARABIA WERE
SO RELUCTANT TO GET BEHIND
MALIKI EFFORT TO REPEL AN
ISLAMIC STATE AND IN SOME WAYS
SORT OF TACITLY BACKED THE
ISLAMIC STATE UNTIL THEY FOUND
OUT THE TRUE NATURE OF THE
THREAT.
>> Sreenivasan: IN IRAQ HOW
LIKELY WILL WE TO SEE GROUND
FORCES FROM THE ARAB LEAGUE
OR EVEN PART OF THE U.S.
COALITION?
>> IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
THERE WILL BE GROUND FORCES
FROM THE ARAB LEAGUE ANY
TIME SOON.
THE ARAB LEAGUE GROUND
FORCES IS NOT-- IS NOT A
FULLY DEVELOPED FORCE QUITE
YET.
AND SO THAT WOULD HAVE
TO-- IF THAT WERE TO BE
DEPLOYED, IT WOULD BE QUITE
A LONG TIME IN THE FUTURE.
I DON'T THINK THAT THE
UNITED STATES OR THE IRAQIS
OR THE IRANIANS FOR THAT
MATTER HAVE THE KIND OF
PATIENCE TO WAIT FOR A FULLY
DEVELOPED ARAB LEAGUE FOR US
TO COME TOGETHER STRENGTHLY,
MILITARILY, AND LEGALLY TO
FORM THAT KIND OF LEGAL APP
RAT IS THAT WOULD BUILD AN
ARAB ARMY THAT HAS LONG BEEN
THE DREAM OF MANY OF THE
SUNNI ARAB STATES.
AND THEY WANT TO MOVE TO
MOSUL LATER THIS YEAR AND WE
TAKE IRAQ SECRETARY ISLAMIC
CITY BEFORE THAT CITY STAYS
TOO LONG UNDER ISLAMIC STATE
CONTROL AND REALLY ATROPHIES
ECONOMICALLY AND POLITICALLY.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT IS
AN UPDATE ON THE FIGHTING IN
THE BATTLE FOR TIKRIT?
>> WELL, TIKRIT IS NOW
ENTERING, TOMORROW IT WILL
BE ENTERING THE FOURTH WEEK
ON THE ASSAULT ON TIKRIT.
WHAT WAS SO UNUSUAL WERE
THERE IS THESE IRANIAN BACK
MILITIA STARTED THE FIGHT ON
MARCH.
THEY DIDN'T WARN THE U.S. OR
MAKE AN EFFORT TO WORK WITH --
>> ESPECIALLY IN KOBANI
WHERE THE UNITED STATES WAS
REALLY FLOGGING ISLAMIC
STATES SO FOR THE FIRST TWO
WEEKS, THESE IRANIAN-BACKED
SHI'A MILITIAS WERE ABLE TO
REPEL ISLAMIC STATES OUTSIDE
OF TIKRIT BUT ONCE IT
ENTERED THE THIRD WEEK THE
FIGHT SORT OF STALLED AND
THAT IS WHEN AFTER A COUPLE
OF DAYS OF THAT IMPASSE,
BEING DAD WENT TO THE UNITED
STATES AND ASKED THEM TO
INTERVENE.
SO THE UNITED STATES SAID WE
WILL INTERVENE AS LONG AS
THESE SHIITE MILITIAS TAKE
A BACKSEAT RULE IN THE
CONTINUING FIGHTING IN
TIKRIT SO WE ARE SEEING A
DIFFICULT MOMENT WHERE THE
SHIITE MILITIAS HAVE BEEN
ASKED TO WITHDRAW FROM THE
FRONT LINES AS THE UNITED
STATES MOVES FORWARD.
BUT WITHOUT THESE SHIITE
MILITIAS BACKED BY IRAN IN
TIKRIT, THE UNITED STATES
DOES NOT A STRONG RELIABLE
ON THE GROUND PARTNER
CAPABLE OF MOVING IN AND
REALLY LIBERATING IT FROM
ISLAMIC STATE.
>> Sreenivasan: MATT BRADLEY
OF "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: QUICK CHECK, ARE
YOU WATCHING THIS PROGRAM ON A
TV, ARE YOU WATCHING IT AT ITS
REGULARLY SCHEDULED TIME?
IF YOU'RE OF A "CERTAIN AGE" YOU
MIGHT BE WATCHING THIS NEXT
STORY ON A PHONE OR A TABLET,
TIME-SHIFTING IT THROUGH A DVR
TO WATCH IT WHEN YOU WANT, YOU
MIGHT NOT EVEN OWN A TELEVISION
OR HAVE A CONNECTION TO A CABLE
OR SATELLITE SERVICE.
IN FACT, CUTTING THE CORD IS AN
ATTRACTIVE ALTERNATIVE TO PAYING
A MONTHLY CABLE BILL FOR A
GROWING NUMBER OF PEOPLE.
IT'S A WAY TO SAVE UP TO $60 OR
$80 A MONTH.
BUT WHAT HAPPENS TO THE
DEFINITION OF TELEVISION AS OUR
VIEWING PATTERNS CHANGE?
THAT'S THE TOPIC OF OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT TONIGHT,
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JEFF
GREENFIELD REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THIS WAS THE
AMERICAN CITYSCAPE WHEN
TELEVISION WAS NEW: FORESTS OF
ROOFTOP ANTENNAS, CAPTURING
SIGNALS OVER THE AIR FROM A
HALF-DOZEN CHANNELS THAT FOUGHT
FOR SPACE ON A CROWDED BROADCAST
SPECTRUM.
TURNING THOSE SIGNALS INTO
FLICKERING, SOMETIMES GHOSTLY
BLACK AND WHITE IMAGES ON SMALL
SCREENS.
FOR ALMOST 90% OF TODAY'S HOMES,
TELEVISION COMES TO US THROUGH
CABLE OR TELEPHONE WIRES OR VIA
SATELLITE.
OUR CABLE BILLS BRING US A SO-
CALLED "BUNDLE" OF MORE THAN 900
CHANNELS.
BUT MOST OF US WATCH AN AVERAGE
OF ONLY 17.
AND NOW, MORE AND MORE VIEWERS,
UNWILLING TO PAY EVER-HIGHER
FEES FOR A HUGE "BUNDLE" OF
CHOICES THEY RARELY USE, ARE
TURNING TO A NEW TECHNOLOGY THAT
MAY THREATEN THE VERY FOUNDATION
OF THE CABLE TV INDUSTRY.
OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS, 3.8
MILLION AMERICAN HOMES HAVE "CUT
THE CORD," CANCELING OR REFUSING
CABLE.
YOUNGER VIEWERS, SO-CALLED
"MILLENNIALS" FORM A GROWING
CLASS OF "CORD-NEVERS,"
REJECTING THE COST OF A MONTHLY
CABLE BILL, THEY'VE TURNED
INSTEAD TO BROADBAND, HIGH SPEED
INTERNET CONNECTIONS, AND A
RANGE OF STREAMING VIDEO
SERVICES TO WATCH WHAT THEY
WANT, WHERE THEY WANT, WHEN THEY
WANT.
WE DIDN'T HAVE TO GO FAR TO FIND
A PRIME EXAMPLE: HANNAH YI IS A
31 YEAR OLD PRODUCER FOR"
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND," AND IN FACT,
IS ONE OF THE PRODUCERS OF THIS
PIECE.
AND SHE'S A TV PRODUCER,
REMEMBER, SHE DOESN'T HAVE A
TELEVISION SET.
WHY ARE YOU NOT TEMPTED, DO YOU
THINK, TO BUY YOURSELF A
TELEVISION SET AND HOOK UP TO
CABLE?
>> I THINK IT'S BECAUSE I
ALREADY HAVE WAYS TO WATCH WHAT
I WANT TO WATCH WITHOUT A
TELEVISION.
I HAVE MY PHONE.
I HAVE MY iPAD.
I HAVE MY LAPTOP.
AND I FEEL LIKE, WITH GOOD
BROADBAND, I CAN PRETTY MUCH GET
EVERYTHING THAT I NEED TO SEE ON
THOSE DEVICES.
AND SO I DON'T FEEL THE NEED TO
GO OUT OF MY WAY TO BUY A TV,
LET ALONE PAY A CABLE BILL.
>> Reporter: HER $9 A MONTH
NETFLIX SUBSCRIPTION BRINGS HER
NOT JUST MOVIES AND OLDER TV
SHOWS, BUT ORIGINAL OFFERS LIKE"
HOUSE OF CARDS" AND "ORANGE IS
THE NEW BLACK."
LIKE MANY OF HER CONTEMPORARIES,
HANNAH, TO PUT IT POLITELY,
BORROWS A FRIEND'S PASSWORD TO
WATCH HBO SHOWS LIKE "GAME OF
THRONES" AND "LAST WEEK
TONIGHT."
ANOTHER $8 BUYS HER HULU PLUS-
WHICH LETS HER SEE SHOWS FROM
TRADITIONAL BROADCAST CHANNELS
ALTHOUGH NOT WHEN THEY'RE
ORIGINALLY BROADCAST.
>> "MODERN FAMILY" IS AN ABC
SHOW.
I GET THAT ON HULU PLUS SO I
WATCH THAT ON MY iPAD.
I'M NOT WATCHING IT WITH THE
REST OF AMERICA, BUT I AM STILL
ABLE TO WATCH IT EASILY ON MY
DEVICES.
>> Reporter: HANNAH ISN'T ALONE
IN USING NETFLIX, HULU PLUS OR
AMAZON.
A RECENT NEILSON REPORT FOUND
THAT OVER 40% OF AMERICAN HOMES
SUBSCRIBE TO AT LEAST ONE OF
THESE SERVICES.
FOR THOSE UNLIKE HANNAH YI, WHO
DO HAVE A TV SET, $50 BUYS THEM
A ROKU, A SIMPLE PIECE OF
HARDWARE THAT BRINGS THOSE
ONLINE OFFERINGS RIGHT ONTO
THEIR HI-DEF TELEVISIONS.
AND THERE'S EVIDENCE THAT THIS
NEW TECHNOLOGY IS HAVING A
SERIOUS IMPACT.
ACCORDING TO NIELSEN, VIEWERSHIP
OF TRADITIONAL TV DROPPED 4%
LAST YEAR.
MEANWHILE, TIME SPENT VIEWING
STREAMING VIDEO IS UP 40%, A
DRAMATIC INCREASE IN ONLINE
VIEWING.
IN RESPONSE, SOMETHING LIKE A
CALIFORNIA GOLD RUSH HAS BROKEN
OUT, AS MANY, PERHAPS MOST, OF
THE BIGGEST MEDIA PLAYERS ARE
OFFERING SERVICES THAT DON'T
REQUIRE A CABLE OR SATELLITE
HOOKUP.
APPLE, SONY, THE DISH NETWORK,
ARE AMONG THOSE LOOKING TO OFFER
THEIR OWN STREAMING SUBSCRIPTION
SERVICES, BUNDLING ABOUT 20
CHANNELS, FEATURING
ENTERTAINMENT, SPORTS AND NEWS
PROGRAMMING, FOR $20 TO $50 A
MONTH.
ROGER LYNCH, CEO OF SLING TV,
DISH'S STREAMING SERVICE,
EXPLAINS THE RATIONALE.
>> WE'RE GOING AFTER MILLENNIALS
AND CORD-CUTTERS AND CORD-
NEVERS.
SO, REALLY PEOPLE FOR WHOM THE
TRADITIONAL PAY TV BUNDLE
DOESN'T MEET THEIR NEEDS.
>> Reporter: WITH SO MANY
PLAYERS LOOKING BEYOND CABLE, A
KEY QUESTION ARISES: DOES THIS
PORTEND "THE DEATH OF TV?"
WILL THIS MEDIUM GO THE WAY OF
MUSIC, WHERE RECORDS AND C.D.'S
ARE ALL BUT EXTINCT, OR
NEWSPAPERS, FINDING IT EVER
HARDER TO SURVIVE IN PRINT?
WELL, IT DEPENDS WHO YOU ASK,
AND WHAT YOU MEAN BY DEATH.
EARLIER THIS MONTH HBO'S CHIEF,
RICHARD PLEPLER ANNOUNCED A $15-
A-MONTH STREAMING SERVICE, TO BE
DELIVERED THROUGH APPLE DEVICES,
THAT SET ALARM BELLS RINGING.
WHEN HBO ANNOUNCED THAT YOU WERE
GOING TO BRING THIS NEW SERVICE
TO THE PUBLIC, ONE OF THE FIRST
REACTIONS OUT THERE WAS, "A-HA,
THIS IS THE CANARY IN THE COAL
MINE.
THE CORD IS BEING CUT.
THIS PRESAGES THE ULTIMATE DEATH
OF CABLE."
TRUE?
>> NO, HIGHLY OVERWROUGHT.
LISTEN, THERE ARE 70 MILLION
HOMES IN THE U.S. THAT DON'T
TAKE HBO AND ONE OF THE
THINGS WE THINK ABOUT ALL THE
TIME IS HOW DO WE GO AND BRING
THOSE 70 MILLION HOMES INTO THE
HBO FAMILY?
SO WE WANNA DO THAT THROUGH,
KIND OF MULTILATERAL APPROACH.
WE'RE GONNA WORK WITH OUR CABLE
OPERATORS.
WE'RE GONNA WORK WITH OUR
SATELLITE DISTRIBUTORS.
WE'RE GONNA WORK WITH OUR TELCO
DISTRIBUTORS.
AND WE'RE GOING TO ADD DIGITAL
DISTRIBUTION TO THAT OUTREACH.
>> Reporter: INDEED, WITH 46
MILLION CABLE AND SATELLITE TV
HOMES SUBSCRIBING TO HBO,
THERE'S A HUGE ECONOMIC
INCENTIVE FOR THE NETWORK TO
STAY WITH CABLE.
IT'S THE SAME LOGIC FOR SPORTS
GIANT ESPN, WHICH EARNS SOME
$6.5 BILLION DOLLARS YEAR JUST
FROM CABLE SUBSCRIBER FEES.
THAT IS A POWERFUL REASON TO
REMAIN IN THE CABLE UNIVERSE.
>> Reporter: AS FOR THOSE WHO
ARE LOOKING TO SAVE MONEY BY
DUMPING A CABLE PACKAGE, THE
ADVANTAGE TO CORD-CUTTING MAY
NOT BE ALL THAT CLEAR, SAYS "THE
ATLANTIC'S" DEREK THOMPSON.
EVEN IN CUTTING THE CORD,
THEY'RE STILL GONNA BE PAYING
$40 A MONTH, SAY, TO TIME WARNER
JUST FOR THE INTERNET.
>> RIGHT.
>> Reporter: BUT NOW YOU ADD
SLING.
THAT'S $20 A MONTH, I MEAN, WHEN
YOU START ADDING THIS STUFF UP,
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE THESE CORD
CUTTERS ARE GONNA BE SAVING ANY
MONEY.
THEY MIGHT ACTUALLY END UP
SPENDING MORE MONEY.
>> SOME PEOPLE ARE NOT GOING TO
SAVE MONEY.
SOME PEOPLE SURELY ARE GOING TO
THINK THAT THEY'RE BEATING A
SYSTEM BUT IRONICALLY ARE GOING
TO PAY MORE FOR IT.
BUT THERE'S A LOTTA PEOPLE AND
THEY'RE GONNA SAY, "I DON'T
WANNA SPEND $100 A MONTH ON
ENTERTAINMENT.
INSTEAD I JUST WANT TO HAVE
NETFLIX."
AND THERE YOU'RE ONLY SPENDING
ABOUT $10 A MONTH.
>> Reporter: THERE IS, HOWEVER,
IS ONE WILD CARD TO CONTEMPLATE.
WHAT IS MOSTLY "STREAMED" VIA
BROADBAND IS MORE OR LESS
TRADITIONAL, RECOGNIZABLE FARE:
BIG-BUDGET DRAMAS LIKE "HOUSE OF
CARDS," RE-PACKAGED TV SHOWS VIA
HULU PLUS.
BUT CRAIG MOFFAT, WHO'S BEEN
ANALYZING THE INDUSTRY FOR
YEARS, NOTES THAT THE CORD
CUTTING AND CORD-NEVER
MILLENNIALS ARE ACTUALLY OFTEN
WATCHING SOMETHING VERY
DIFFERENT.
>> THEY'RE EXISTING IN AN
ENTERTAINMENT ECOSYSTEM THAT
OPERATES ENTIRELY OUTSIDE OF THE
PAY TV SYSTEM THAT WE KNOW
TODAY.
IT'S CONTENT THAT'S DEVELOPED
FOR 1/10 THE COST PER HOUR OF
TRADITIONAL CONTENT.
AND IT'S NOT DISTRIBUTED VIA
CABLE AND SATELLITE OPERATORS.
IT'S DISTRIBUTED BY SOCIAL MEDIA
COMPANIES.
>> Reporter: MOFFATT'S TALKING
ABOUT VIDEOS THAT YOU CAN WATCH
WITHOUT A TV, LIKE "BETWEEN TWO
FERNS", ZACH GALIFIANAKIS'
INTERVIEW SHOW ON THE "FUNNY OR
DIE" WEBSITE OR "HIGH
MAINTENANCE," THE SITCOM ABOUT A
MARIJUANA DEALER ON VIMEO.
MILLENNIALS ARE ALSO WATCHING
VIDEO CLIPS ON YOUTUBE AND THE
VIDEO MESSAGING APP SNAPCHAT.
THAT'S ONE REASON WHY HBO'S NEW
STREAMING SERVICE INCLUDES A
DAILY HALF-HOUR NEWSCAST FROM
"VICE," A DISTINCTLY NON-
TRADITIONAL FORM OF JOURNALISM.
>> IF YOU WENT TO MEDIA
COMPANIES FIVE YEARS AGO OR EVEN
THREE YEARS AGO AND SAID, "WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN THE MILLENNIALS GO
THROUGH A LIFE STAGE CHANGE,
WHEN THEY HAVE CHILDREN, WHEN
THEY GET MARRIED?"
THEY ALL WOULD HAVE SAID, "ALL
OF THESE MILLENNIALS ARE GONNA
COME FLOODING BACK TO PAY TV."
THEY'RE NOT SO SURE ANYMORE.
MILLENNIALS ARE DISENGAGED FROM
THE ENTIRE ECOSYSTEM.
AND HAVING CHILDREN ISN'T GONNA
MAKE THEM SUDDENLY ABANDON
NETFLIX AND GO BACK TO PAY TV.
THEY'RE SIMPLY GONNA FIND THEIR
PROGRAMMING THROUGH A DIFFERENT
VENUE.
>> Reporter: SO, DOES THIS NEW
MEDIA LANDSCAPE REALLY POINT TO"
THE DEATH OF TV?"
WELL, JAY YAROW, WHO WRITES A
REGULAR "DEATH OF TV" COLUMN FOR
"BUSINESS INSIDER," SAYS THIS:
>> THERE'S STILL MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE TUNING IN TO TV SHOWS.
WITH ANY CONVERSATION AROUND THE
DEATH OF ANYTHING, YOU HAVE TO
KEEP IN MIND WHAT THE "DEATH"
REALLY MEANS.
IT DOESN'T MEAN IT GOES TO ZERO,
AND GOES AWAY, AND DISAPPEARS
ENTIRELY.
WHAT IT MEANS IS IT PROBABLY
GOES INTO DECLINE, OR IT GOES
FLAT, IT GOES SIDEWAYS.
>> Reporter: IF YOU'RE BETTING
THAT TV AS WE KNOW IT WON'T BE
AROUND TEN OR EVEN TWENTY YEARS
FROM NOW, YOU'D LIKELY LOSE THAT
BET.
AND THE GIANTS LIKE ESPN OR HBO
WILL LIKELY SURVIVE NO MATTER
HOW THEIR SIGNALS COME INTO OUR
HOMES.
BUT IF MILLIONS MORE TURN AWAY
FROM THE "CABLE BUNDLE", IT'S A
VERY GOOD BET THAT MANY OF THE
SMALLER, SPECIALIZED NETWORKS
THAT DEPEND ON THAT BUNDLE WILL
BE ENDANGERED SPECIES.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE YOU A CABLE
TV SUBSCRIBER, OR HAVE YOU CUT
THE CORD TO STREAM MEDIA ONLINE?
SHARE YOUR MEDIA DIET ON
FACEBOOK OR ON OUR WEBSITE AT
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FEDERAL
CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION
BUREAU THIS WEEK TOOK NEW STEPS
TO PROTECT THE WORKING POOR FROM
PEOPLE CRITICS DESCRIBE AS
PREDATORY LENDERS, THOSE MAKING
WHAT ARE KNOWN AS PAY DAY LOANS.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON BY
CHICO HARLAN OF THE WASHINGTON
POST.
SO FIRST I GUESS LET'S JUST
SET THE STAGE HERE.
WHAT QUALIFIES IN T
HIS
CATEGORY OF LOANS THAT THE
CFPB IS TRYING TO REGULATE?
>> WELL, THEY'RE ACTUALLY
GOING AFTER A PRETTY BROAD
SWATHE OF BOTH SHORT TERM
AND MEDIUM TERM LOANS.
GENERALLY CHARACTERIZED BY
VERY HIGH INTEREST RATES AND
BY THE TARGET AUDIENCE OR
THE TARGET CONSUMER WHICH
TENDS TO BE THE WORKING
POOR.
YOU HAVE TWO CATEGORIES,
PAY-DAY LOANS WHICH ARE, YOU
KNOW, YOU HAVE A TWO WEEKS
TO PAY IT BACK AND
INSTALLMENT LOANS WHICH GO
OVER A LONGER PERIOD, YOU
STILL HAVE ASTRONOMICAL
INTEREST RATES AND THEY'RE
PAID BACK OVER WEEKS OR
SOMETIMES MONTHS.
>> WHAT IS THE HAZARD WHEN
SOMEBODY TAKES A LOAN, CAN'T
TAKE IT OR PAY IT BACK, THEY
PICK UP ANOTHER LOAN?
>> YEAH, THAT TENDS TO BE
THE BIGGEST HAZARD.
IT'S THAT THESE LOANS ARE
MARKETED AS A TWO-WEEK FIX,
LET'S SAY YOU HAVE SOME
UNFORESEEN EMERGENCY, A CAR
ACCIDENT, BILLS THAT ARE
LARGER THAN ANTICIPATED,
WELL, YOU GO TO A PAYDAY
LENDING STORE AND YOU TAKE
OUT A LOAN WITH THE IDEA
THAT IT WILL BE PAID BACK IN
TWO WEEKS.
HOWEVER, THESE ARE PEOPLE
WITHOUT DON'T ALWAYS HAVE SO
MUCH MONEY ON HAND, AND WHEN
THAT TWO-WEEK PERIOD HITS,
BOOM, YOU HAVE ALL THESE
FINANCING FEES THAT ARE
ADDED IN, AND MANY PEOPLE
KIND THEMSELVES IN A
POSITION WHERE THE ONLY WAY
THEY CAN PAY BACK THAT LOAN
AND STILL PAY FOR FOOD AND
OTHER DAILY NEWS IS TO TAKE
OUT YET ANOTHER PAYDAY LOAN.
>> SO WHAT IS THE BUREAU
GOING TO DO OR WANT TO DO TO
TRY TO PREVENT THIS FROM
HAPPENING?
>> WELL, THEY'RE GOING AFTER
THIS-- IN A COUPLE DIFFERENT
WAYS.
AND IT DOES GET COMPLICATED
BUT I THINK THE KEY THING,
THE PILLAR IN THIS WHOLE
STRATEGY IS A CAP THAT WILL
COME AFTER THE THIRD LOAN.
SO LET'S SAY YOU TAKE OUT A
LOAN, RENEW IT TWICE, NOW A
PAYDAY COMPANY CAN NO LONGER
GET YOU ON A FOURTH OR ON A
THIRD RENEWAL.
THEY BASICALLY HAVE TO GIVE
YOU AN OFF-RAMP WHERE ALL
THE MONEY YOU OWE AFTER
THREE PAYDAY LOANS IN A ROW
GETS PAID BACK OVER ANY
PERIOD OF TIME THAT YOU
WANT?
>> SO WHEN DO THESE PROPOSED
RULES GO INTO EFFECT?
>> WELL, IT'S STILL GOING TO
BE QUITE A LONG PERIOD OF
DELIBERATION.
I WOULD SUSPECT THAT BY
SOMETIME NEXT YEAR THESE
RULES OR A VERSION OF THEM
WILL GO INTO EFFECT.
>> AND WHAT IS THE INITIAL
RESPONSE FROM THE LENDING
INDUSTRY ABOUT THIS?
>> ALMOST EVERYBODY I HAVE
TALKED TO IN THE PAYDAY
INDUSTRY MADE IT CLEAR
THIS WITH FAR MORE STRICT
THAN EXPECTED.
AND THE OUTCOME, OR THE
OUTCRY, I SHOULD SAY, FROM
PEOPLE IN THE PAYDAY
INDUSTRY HAS BEEN
PRETTY-- PRETTY FIERCE
SAYING THAT THIS WILL REALLY
JEOPARDIZE OUR BUSINESS.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, THIS
IS THEIR WORDS, THIS WILL
JEOPARDIZE THE ABILITY OF
LOW INCOME PEOPLE TO GET
CREDIT WHEN THEY'RE
OFTENTIMES NOT SERVICED
PROPERLY BY BANKS.
>> ALL RIGHT, CHICO HARLAN
FROM "THE WASHINGTON POST,"
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, HARI.
>> Reporter: SOME OF THE MOST
EXPENSIVE REAL ESTATE IN THE BAY
AREA IS ALONGSIDE A FREEWAY THAT
CONNECTS SAN FRANCISCO AND SAN
JOSE.
THERE, BILLBOARDS RENT FOR
BETWEEN 10 AND 50 THOUSAND
DOLLARS A MONTH.
KQED'S SCOTT SHAFER TELLS US,
THE ADS ARE AIMED AT A VERY
SELECT GROUP OF DRIVERS.
FOR SOME LANDING IN SILICON
VALLEY IS LIKE ARRIVING IN
SHANGRI-LA, THE PLACE APPLE,
FACEBOOK AND GOOGLE CALL
HOME.
BUT EVEN IN PARADISE THERE'S
TRAFFIC.
THE COMMUTE ALONG THIS 40
MILE STRETCH OF FREEWAY
BETWEEN SAN FRANCISCO AND
SAN JOSE CAN TAKE A COUPLE
OF HOURS.
DRIVERS HAVE PLENTY OF TIME
TO STARE OUT THEIR WINDOWS
AT THE SEEMINGLY ENDLESS
STREAM OF ADS FOR TECH
COMPANIES.
SOME BILLBOARDS PROMOTE THE
FAMILIAR, BUT OTHERS SEEM TO
REQUIRE A TRANSLATOR.
>> BOX, BOX, NO, HAVE-- I
DON'T HAVE THAT ONE.
>> STANFORD UNIVERSITY
MARKETING PROFESSOR PEDRO
GARDETT SAY THE BILLBOARD
USE A PRIVATE LANGUAGE AIMED
AT THE TECH SET.
>> THESE BILLBOARDS ARE IN A
SENSE DIFFERENT FROM
ANYTHING WE'VE SEEN BEFORE.
THESE COMPANIES HAVE FOUND A
NEW WAY TO DO IT WHICH IS
PUTTING UP SOME LITTLE RID
WILL-- RIDDLES THAT IN A
SENSE SAY THIS AD IS YOU.
SO IT REALLY MAKES SENSE IN
THE MICROCLIMATE WE LIVE IN.
>> AMONG THOSE DRIVING BY
>> Reporter: AMONG THOSE DRIVING
BY ARE SOME OF THE BIGGEST NAMES
IN VENTURE CAPITAL AND HIGH TECH
>> ONE OF THE MAJOR STRATEGIES
WHEN YOU BUILD A NEW STARTUP IS
TO GET BOUGHT.
SO THERE IS NOTHING LIKE GETTING
AWARENESS TO GET PEOPLE TO
CONSIDER YOU FOR A PURCHASE.
>> Reporter: NATASHA RAJA
CREATED THE MUCH BUZZED ABOUT
BILLBOARDS FOR THE TECH
RECRUITING FIRM, DICE.
THE ADS FEATURE REAL ENGINEERS
IN THEIR UNDERWEAR.
A COMMUTER HERSELF, RAJA THOUGHT
DRIVERS WOULD APPRECIATE SOME
HUMOR.
>> YOU WANT TO PUT A SMILE ON
PEOPLE'S FACE, BUT YOU ALSO WANT
PEOPLE TO PAY ATTENTION, WE
WANTED TO MAKE SURE IT WAS
FUNNY.
>> Reporter: USING AN OLD-SCHOOL
TECHNIQUE TO PROMOTE HIGH-TECH
FIRMS MAY SEEM COUNTERINTUITIVE,
BUT IF THE ADS WORK, EXPECT TO
SEE MORE OF THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
AUTHORITIES HAVE DISCOVERED TWO
BODIES IN THAT MANHATTAN
BUILDING THAT EXPLODED AFTER A
GAS LEAK EARLIER THIS WEEK.
TWO PEOPLE HAD BEEN REPORTED
MISSING.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ON LINE
TOMORROW.
THANKS TO ALL OUR FRIENDS HERE
AT KQED IN SAN FRANCISCO.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.